[inaudible]
one of the concepts,
one of the strategies that I'm most commonly asked about from the four hour
workweek is batching.
There are many,
many,
many finer points to this and quite aside from of course 80 20 delegating,
outsourcing,
Parkinson's law,
batching comes up again and again and again.
So what does batching to explain it in simplest terms,
we can talk about laundry.
All right,
so you wouldn't do your laundry every time you have a new pair of dirty socks,
you wait for a certain critical mass of dirty laundry to accumulate and then you
do the laundry.
Why?
Same with post office.
If you have many different types of mail,
they're going to come together,
you need to mail,
you're going to wait for a certain critical mass as opposed to just going there
for every single letter because there's a setup cost.
There is a task,
switching costs,
getting in the car,
driving there,
spending the gas,
spending the time,
laundry,
putting it all together,
detergent and so on.
Right?
So the the time and labor involved and doing one letter or 20 or one pair of
socks or entire basket of clothing is the same and you want to be both effective
and efficient with your allocation of resources.
I each time if you apply those to business you can apply them in 1,000,001
different ways and I'll give you a few examples.
One of the most common I suppose directional questions or specifics that I'm
asked about is frequency.
While do I batch on a daily basis?
Do I batch on a weekly basis to I batch on a monthly or quarterly basis and the
answers?
I do all of those things but you don't have to try it all at once and I would
not encourage you do that.
I would encourage you to perhaps try one or two approaches and see what works
for you.
This is a very personal set of techniques.
You develop a portfolio that works for yourself.
Let me tell you a few things that I and others do.
For instance,
you might decide that on a given day from the time you wake up until lunch is
your primary creation period.
This could be writing,
it could be recording,
could be anything that is proactively creative and synthesis.
Then once you have lunch you are permitted to do administrative tasks,
phone calls,
email triage,
calendaring and so on.
I do this quite a lot,
particularly from Tuesday to Thursday,
uh,
on certain ways on a weekly basis.
I know the CEO of a very well known startup,
pretty much everyone watching this would know this company and instead of
batching on a daily basis looking at his week,
Monday to Friday,
he might have day one administrative tasks,
day to HR,
hiring,
day,
three,
product day for marketing and on each of those days he will focus on
thematically are categorically those types of tasks that is yet another
approach.
And very commonly I will batch phone calls on Mondays and Fridays and I was even
broadly speaking,
this is voice related tasks.
So I will have phone calls and podcast recording on Mondays and Fridays and this
helps to prevent also interruptions and task switching.
That can result.
If you have miscellaneous phone calls and podcasts scattered throughout the
week,
it makes it very difficult to do deep work on anything that might require three
to five hours of uninterrupted time on a,
on a quarterly basis.
Uh,
you could look at batch producing or completing certain types of normally
scattered activities.
For instance,
I am recording this video right now during a content generation week or a week
is blocked out once per quarter to focus on answering common questions that all
of you or my readers or listeners have asked and so on and so forth on a say six
month to yearly basis.
I have started in the last few years batching travel.
Why would I batch travel?
And there are many different reasons to vegetable.
One of my reasons is that I want to practice being off the grid for extended
periods of time to not only remind myself and prove to myself that it is
possible to do that and know the Internet will not stop.
The universe will not end if you are unavailable and unreachable for certain
periods of time.
Uh,
and also to rejuvenate,
to recharge,
being away from social media and keyboards and laptop screens and so on.
Batching is one of the fundamental concepts that you need to understand.
If you understand the principle,
the reasons for it,
the concepts,
you can come up with your own examples to experiment with and these are not
permanent changes.
Think of them as two week experiments.
One tiny thing that you can test,
assuming that it's on a daily or weekly basis and try it out.
See what works,
keep what works,
reject what doesn't add what is uniquely need on borrowing from personally.
With that,
and before you know it,
you will have a reliable,
dependable way of making yourself more effective and more efficient,
which is your bespoke iteration of batching.